What is UML? 
	It is the general-purpose modeling language used to visualize the system. 
	It is a graphical language that is standard to the software industry 	
		for specifying, visualizing, constructing, and documenting the artifacts of 
		the software systems, as well as for business modeling.
		
		
Benefits of UML: 
	Simplifies complex software design, can also implement OOPs like a concept that is widely used.
	It reduces thousands of words of explanation in a few graphical diagrams that may reduce time consumption to understand.
	It makes communication more clear and more real.
	It helps to acquire the entire system in a view.
	It becomes very much easy for the software programmer to implement the actual demand once they have a clear picture of the problem.
	
	
Types of UML
	Structural UML diagrams 
		Class diagram
		Package diagram
		Object diagram
		Component diagram
		Composite structure diagram
		Deployment diagram
	Behavioral UML diagrams 
		Activity diagram
		Sequence diagram
		Use case diagram
		State diagram
		Communication diagram
		Interaction overview diagram
		Timing diagram
	
UML class diagrams: 
	Class diagrams are the main building blocks of every object-oriented method. 
	The class diagram can be used to show the classes, relationships, interface, association, and collaboration. 
	UML is standardized in class diagrams. 
	Since classes are the building block of an application that is based on OOPs, 
		so as the class diagram has an appropriate structure to represent the classes, inheritance, relationships, and everything that OOPs have in their context. 
		It describes various kinds of objects and the static relationship between them. 
	Class diagrams are one of the most widely used diagrams in the fields of software engineering as well as business modeling.

	The main purpose to use class diagrams are: 
		This is the only UML that can appropriately depict various aspects of the OOPs concept.
		Proper design and analysis of applications can be faster and efficient.
		It is the base for deployment and component diagram.
	
	There are several software available that can be used online and offline to draw these diagrams Like Edraw max, lucid chart, etc.
	
	
	In class diagram, each class is represented by a rectangle having a subdivision of three compartments name, attributes, and operation.
	There are three types of modifiers that are used to decide the visibility of attributes and operations. 
		+ is used for public visibility(for everyone)
		# is used for protected visibility (for friend and derived)
		– is used for private visibility (for only me)

	Class diagrams are used for:
		Describing the static view of the system.
		Showing the collaboration among the elements of the static view.
		Describing the functionalities performed by the system.
		Construction of software applications using object-oriented languages.
			